Merge the demo branch into master (#319)
XanaduAI/strawberryfields: doc/introduction/remote.rst

.. _starship:

Xanadu cloud platform
#####################

In this section, we provide a tutorial of the **RemoteEngine**, an engine used to connect to the Xanadu
cloud platform and execute jobs remotely (e.g., on a quantum chip).

Configuring the RemoteEngine
----------------------------

Before using the RemoteEngine, you need to configure the hostname and authentication token that will provide
you access to the API. This can be done in one of two ways:

1. By using the :func:`~.store_account` function to store your account credentials:

>    >>> sf.store_account("my_api_token")

Reviewer: Included suggestion for consistency previously, not sure if we would like to make it consistent for the entire doc on `"my_api_token"` (if so, would need a quick search&replace)

Reviewer: Also, on the `Configuration` page, this order (from Python & from CLI) was reverse, starting with the CLI example. Would we like to have it like that here as well, or is the change of order intended?

Author: I think the order is fine :) Not intended, but not too much of an issue.

But it would be good to standardize the dummy name we use for the tokens... which one do you prefer?

Reviewer: Any of the ones that appeared work for me! Left the suggestions for potential convenience, saw the further cases later.

2. By using the ``sf`` command line interface to configure Strawberry Fields with your
   account credentials:

   .. code-block:: bash

       $ sf configure --token my_api_token

In both of the above code snippets, ``my_api_token`` should be replaced with your personal
API token! For more details on configuring Strawberry Fields for cloud access, including
creating local per-project configuration files, see the :doc:`/introduction/configuration`
quickstart guide.

To test that your account credentials correctly authenticate against the cloud platform,
you can use the :func:`~.ping` command, from within Strawberry Fields,

>>> sf.cli.ping()
You have successfully authenticated to the platform!

or via the command line:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sf --ping

>     You have successfully authenticated to the platform!

Author: Would like to fix this in a separate PR!

.. _first_program:

Submitting a Blackbird script
-----------------------------

The easiest way to execute a program using the RemoteEngine is to create a Blackbird script (an ``xbb`` file)
and place it in your current working directory.

For this example, consider the following Blackbird script, which represents a quantum program that matches

> exactly the gate layout of the ``chip2`` photonic hardware device. We will save the following

Author: This section is out of date, especially with the chips being renamed. Would like to rewrite this in a new PR post-merge.

       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 2],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0],
       [1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 3, 0],
       [3, 0, 0, 0, 2, 0, 1, 0],
       [0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0],
       [0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0],
       [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1],
       [1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
       [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0],
       [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 2, 1, 2],
       [2, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0]])
>>> np.mean(results.samples.T, axis=0)
array([0.4 , 0.1 , 0.15, 0.05, 0.3 , 0.3 , 0.45, 0.35])

We can convert the samples into counts using the following function:

.. code-block:: python3

     from collections import Counter

     def count(samples):
          bitstrings = [tuple(i) for i in samples]
          return {k:v for k, v in Counter(bitstrings).items()}

>>> samples = np.array([[0, 2],[1, 0],[0, 1],[0, 0],[0, 0],[2, 0],[0, 1],[0, 1]])
>>> counts = count(samples)
>>> print(counts)
{(0, 2): 1, (1, 0): 1, (0, 1): 3, (0, 0): 2, (2, 0): 1}
>>> counts[(0, 0)]

> 2

Author: We have an issue to add this 😆 #157 The reason it is added here is because people were leaving tickets asking how to do this during the alpha period, so I thought best to add it to a central location.

.. _compilation:

Program compilation
-------------------

In addition to using the program template above, which directly matches the physical
layout of the hardware device, you can apply any four-mode interferometer to the pairs of modes.

Primitive gates supported by chip2 include any combination of:

* `General beamsplitters <https://strawberryfields.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/ops.html#strawberryfields.ops.BSgate>`_ (``ops.BSgate``),

* `Mach-Zehnder interfomerters <https://strawberryfields.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/ops.html#strawberryfields.ops.MZgate>`_ (``ops.MZgate``), or

> * `rotations/phase shifts <https://strawberryfields.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/ops.html#strawberryfields.ops.Rgate>`_ (``ops.Rgate``).

Reviewer: These links seem to be broken :(

Author: Good catch!

Author: Fixed

MZgate(5.152, 4.891) | (q[1], q[2])
Rgate(2.544) | (q[2])
MZgate(1.228, 5.006) | (q[4], q[5])
MZgate(4.414, 3.859) | (q[5], q[6])
MZgate(2.98, 3.316) | (q[6], q[7])
Rgate(-0.7501) | (q[7])
MZgate(5.397, 5.494) | (q[4], q[5])
MZgate(5.152, 4.891) | (q[5], q[6])
Rgate(2.544) | (q[6])
Rgate(-1.173) | (q[1])
Rgate(1.902) | (q[4])
Rgate(1.902) | (q[0])
Rgate(-1.173) | (q[5])
MeasureFock | (q[0], q[1], q[2], q[3], q[4], q[5], q[6], q[7])

and even saved as a new Blackbird script using the :func:`~.io.save` function:

>>> from strawberryfields.io import save
>>> save("test_compiled.xbb", prog)

Tips and tricks
---------------

.. code-block:: python3

    from strawberryfields.utils import operation

We can define an operation to make it easier to apply the same unitary
to both signal and idler modes.

.. code-block:: python3

    @operation(4)
    def unitary(q):
        ops.Interferometer(U) | q
        ops.BSgate(0.543, 0.123) | (q[2], q[0])

    prog = sf.Program(8)

    with prog.context as q:
        ops.S2gate(1.0) | (q[0], q[4])
        ops.S2gate(1.0) | (q[1], q[5])
        ops.S2gate(1.0) | (q[2], q[6])
        ops.S2gate(1.0) | (q[3], q[7])

>         unitary() | q[:4]

Reviewer 2: Will it be confusing to users if the call to `unitary` here does not match the signature above?

        unitary() | q[4:]

Embedding bipartite graphs
--------------------------

We can embed bipartite graphs, with the restriction that the singular
values form the set :math:`\{0, d\}` for some real value :math:`d`.

The matrix :math:`B` represents the edges between the two sets of
vertices in the graph, and :math:`A` is the full adjacency matrix
:math:`A = \begin{bmatrix}0 & B\\ B^T & 0\end{bmatrix}`. Here, we will
consider a complete bipartite graph, since we know that the singular

> values are of the form :math:`\{d, 0\}`.

Reviewer 2: Why do we know this?

.. code-block:: python3

    B = np.ones([4, 4])

>     A = np.block([[0*B, B], [B.T, 0*B]])

Reviewer 2: Might be more clear to use `np.zeros_like`?

    prog = sf.Program(8)

    # the following mean photon number per mode
    # quantity is set to ensure that the singular values

>     # are scaled such that all squeezers have value 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # are scaled such that all Sgates have value squeezing value r=1
```

Reviewer 2: Can we restructure this section so that it foremost shows users how to rescale their adjacency matrix (if possible) to give a runnable circuit?

Also, is the value `r=1` an actual physical constraint? I thought it was just binary :thinking:

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this was committed, but there was a typo in my suggestion

    m = 0.345274461385554870545

    with prog.context as q:
        ops.BipartiteGraphEmbed(A, mean_photon_per_mode=m) | q
        ops.MeasureFock() | q

>>> prog.compile("chip2").print()
S2gate(1, 0) | (q[0], q[4])
S2gate(0, 0) | (q[3], q[7])
S2gate(0, 0) | (q[2], q[6])
MZgate(3.598, 5.444) | (q[2], q[3])
MZgate(3.598, 5.444) | (q[6], q[7])
S2gate(0, 0) | (q[1], q[5])
MZgate(0, 5.236) | (q[0], q[1])
MZgate(4.886, 5.496) | (q[1], q[2])
MZgate(0.7106, 4.492) | (q[2], q[3])
Rgate(0.9284) | (q[3])
MZgate(2.922, 3.142) | (q[0], q[1])
MZgate(4.528, 3.734) | (q[1], q[2])
Rgate(-2.51) | (q[2])
MZgate(0, 5.236) | (q[4], q[5])
MZgate(4.886, 5.496) | (q[5], q[6])
MZgate(0.7106, 4.492) | (q[6], q[7])
Rgate(0.9284) | (q[7])
MZgate(2.922, 3.142) | (q[4], q[5])
MZgate(4.528, 3.734) | (q[5], q[6])
Rgate(-2.51) | (q[6])
Rgate(-2.51) | (q[1])
Rgate(-0.8273) | (q[4])
Rgate(-0.8273) | (q[0])
Rgate(-2.51) | (q[5])
MeasureFock | (q[0], q[1], q[2], q[3], q[4], q[5], q[6], q[7])

The squeezing values required to embed this bipartite graph are given by
the following relation:

> >>> from thewalrus.quantum import find_scaling_adjacency_matrix

Reviewer 2: `thewalrus` appears quite suddenly here. Suggest writing a smoother segue

>>> c = find_scaling_adjacency_matrix(A, 2*4*0.345274461385554870545)
>>> set(np.arctanh(np.linalg.svd(c*A)[1]))

> {0.0, 1.0000000000000002}

Reviewer 2: Might be better to put this earlier, where the comment that states why a specific m value was chosen is

Note that the above squeezing values must be of the form :math:`\{0,1\}`

> to be embedded on the chip. Consider a bipartite graph where this is not

Reviewer 2: Why? This will seem unusual to users

the case:

>>> B = np.array([[0, 1, 0, 1], [1, 0, 1, 0], [0, 1, 1, 1], [1, 0, 1, 0]])

> >>> A = np.block([[0*B, B], [B.T, 0*B]])

Reviewer 2: `np.zeros_like`

>>> c = find_scaling_adjacency_matrix(A, 2*4*1)

> >>> set(np.arctanh(np.linalg.svd(c*A)[1]))

Reviewer 2: I'm unclear what this is meant to show :thinking:

        ops.BipartiteGraphEmbed(A, mean_photon_per_mode=1) | q
        ops.MeasureFock() | q

    prog.compile("chip2").print()

.. code-block:: bash

    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    CircuitError                              Traceback (most recent call last)

    <ipython-input-23-f713320d8c3b> in <module>
          5     ops.MeasureFock() | q
          6
    ----> 7 prog.compile("chip2").print()

    ~/Dropbox/Work/Xanadu/sf_cloud/strawberryfields/program.py in compile(self, target, **kwargs)
        522         # does the circuit spec  have its own compilation method?
        523         if db.compile is not None:
    --> 524             seq = db.compile(seq, self.register)
        525
        526         # create the compiled Program

    ~/Dropbox/Work/Xanadu/sf_cloud/strawberryfields/circuitspecs/chip2.py in compile(self, seq, registers)
        137             raise CircuitError(
        138                 "Incorrect squeezing value(s) (r, phi)={}. Allowed squeezing "
    --> 139                 "value(s) are (r, phi)={}.".format(wrong_params, allowed_sq_value)
        140             )
        141

>     CircuitError: Incorrect squeezing value(s) (r, phi)={(1.336, 0.0), (0.177, 0.0), (0.818, 0.0)}. Allowed squeezing value(s) are (r, phi)={(1, 0.0), (0.0, 0.0)}.

Reviewer 2: Enough to just reproduce the error message, not the full traceback (which anyway contains some unnecessary developer-specific stuff)

    # the following mean photon number per mode
    # quantity is set to ensure that the singular values

>     # are scaled such that all Sgates have value squeezing value r=1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # are scaled such that all Sgates have squeezing value r=1
```
